#### 4.1 Ownership of data, code and device:


data (ID-less), code (Shellet Programming) and device (ID-less + SHLP => can use own device, else useless)

- absolute privacy due to ownership of storage device, execution code and encrypted  data using decentralized ID-less messaging based on asymmetric cryptography

- Proletariat Social Networks

- Phos Cloudless Computing Platform

Enable EMYL &ndash; critical to recruitment and training.

move benefits to people here?

We further consider a Cloudless Computing Platform.

- Vision and Action

Vision is Proletariat Social Networks, Phos Cloudless Computing Platform. 

Actions are free software Revolution 2.0: that users can modify live + ID-less messaging. 


#### 4.1 Employee Market Cap Ratio

The contribution of Free Software Revolution 1.0 is unprecedented in human history, yet largely went unnoticed, perhaps blanketed by the noise generated by social media users themselves, the most prominent beneficiaries of the revolution itself.

When FSR1 began, not even Stallman foresaw the rise of MAGAF, with market capitalization into the range of trillions of USD. The educational value of free software in educating programers worldwide, from children below 10 years old in developing countries and above, has never been properly measured, despite the availability of big data algorithms which are also the results of the Free Software Revolution.

One of the motivations of EMYL is to reward programmers fairly, from beginners to experts, based on (the inverse of) employee to market capitalization ratio of the biggest of tech corporations and Bitcoin. i.e. Free Software 2.0 should include ___financial freedom___, where the fairest way to reward programmers can be derived from the inverse of employee to market capitalization ratio. The highest of these, of Facebook, stands at more than USD 10 million per employee.

Bitcoin market cap per contributor (contributors as listed in github) stands at USD 170 billion / 680 = USD 250 million.

https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin

Donations by investors

```
Employee : Market Cap.
Facebook 43k 575B
Microsoft 144k 1155B
Google 114k 900B
Apple 127k 1200B
Amazon 648k 893B
HSBC 151k 237B
Walmart 2200k 339B
Shell 81k 225B
Alibaba 112k 542B
Bitcon 600+ contributors
Ethereum 400+ contributors
```

#### 4.1.2 Earn Money as You Learn (EMYL)

- Is it possible to reward free software programmers like MAGAF and Bitcoin?
- How to reward free software programmers like MAGAF and Bitcoin?

We have outlined above 3 critical components for Free Software Revolution 2.0:

1. ID-less Messaging
2. Hybrid Upstream Downstream Programming Interface
3. Live Edit

With these 3 components, we are able to build EMYL Earn Money as You Learn. Otherwise, the obstacles against people adopting ... are ...

1. An open source project owner may create a list of Phos library words (function name) mapping to existing or new library functions in the original host programming language (Java, C++ etc). This makes it easier for beginners to learn and prospective collaborators to collaborate.

2. Collaborators then use the Phos libary words from respective upstream projects to create their own Phos library words. The original upstream projects may be written in various different programming languages. However, the downstream programming interface will use a common Phos script, simplifying collaboration and integration.

3. Based on the basic framework as described above, we may construct a fee structure for various constributors, with granularity of fees down to a single Phos word, which is equivalent to a function name in high level programming languages (upstream, e.g. C++, Java, etc.) 

4. Please refer to for tipping ... (Phos Tipping Example).

The above cannot be done without Shellet Programming and ID-less. Fragmented programmer communities, no economy of scale. Centralized ID management -- cannot grow, chicken and egg.

Many github repo was not written with proper stucture of API, no documentation. YAHUDI provide the structure, and let users poke the memory etc ... need better example and explanation?

Use Phos Reactive Sensor as example. The only way to understand original code is to run it. How to add anything without disrupting original? 

Third party (Phos specialists) add interface libraries to original projects?

Has a standard Phos interface, makes fee structure possible / easier / measurable?

___Phos provides metaprogramming features / words to help measure / manipulate code of high level programming languages, not just RPN to function mapping!!___ Required for fees calculations and other purposes. How to track usage, owners etc. Relate this to metaprogramming section above??

Phos extension can be used in edit (during edit, not execution) or execution mode. Most lightweight debugging extension, added as a source code module. Extensible. All of Forth properties.

separate fee structure from tipping, fee structure is promise, tipping is to deliver promise.

https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/ew2a7y/lets_destroy_c/

3. Use Phos Messaging to build up database. Their work out payment details. Sponsors.

:: all ideas are cause and effect, in a graph, chain, tree, network.

#### 4.2 Benefits to Programmers: Young and Old

- __Old guards__:

Unlike the initial free software movement, today we need to fight the establishment &ndash; old guards .... Descendants and proponents of old software.

Status quo vs. new ideas proposed here. How different people react.

(Beginners + Old Programmers + Project Owners) fight Old Guards. Explain role of each type of players.

ID-less system is important in EMYL, crucial to reward all, encourage learning and development.

Use learners as developers, one word at a time, Earn Money as You Learn. ID-less system. PhosPay as incentive to learn and develop at the same time.


__Ageism__

(Ageism is related to programmer fragmentation. Old programmers have more value when fragmentation is overcome.)

:: Ageism // prepend paragraph with word, like colon definition. Then relate paragraphs using labels. Next, lower level of hypertext. Integrate with graph of questions

- Most prospective group to develop Phos would be old programmers, facing age discrimination. 

Transfer knowledge in one programming language to others. Experience in 2 or more programming languages improve employability by a lot. Knowledge in stack machine is fundamental and useful in many applications.

__Lower Barriers__

1 out of 1000 users may have an idea to improve a feature or function or just a colour or icon. Conventional FSR1 allow change of code, but to build and run, barriers too big, involve front end, back end, initializing variables. 

__One word at a time__

Other commercial benefits are derived from the above? Mechanism of transferring user editing code to commercial rewards. Liberating more user productivity by making programming and learning of programming simpler.

  - Next step is to recruit project owners to use Phos. Reward with Earn Money as You Learn.
  - Highlight YAHUDI can be used to interface any programming language to Phos
  - YAHUDI (cause) helps recruitment and training of new programmers for open source projects (effect).
  - [ YAHUDI: Yet Another Hybrid Upstream Downstream Interface ](https://github.com/udexon/PhosCloudless/blob/master/YAHUDI_PSN_FSR2.md#yahudi-yet-another-hybrid-upstream-downstream-interface)
  - https://github.com/udexon/PhosCloudless/blob/master/IDSLP.md#shellet-a-shell-embedded-within-a-program





#### 4.4 Cloudless vs. cloud. Like Linux cloning Unix.

Move cloning here. Need to describe all benefits first?


- Cloning: A Low Hanging Fruit

(Cloning is the result/effect of YAHUDI helping project owners to recruit collaborators, improving the components used for Proletariat Social Network &ndash; ___a network owned by everyone___.)

- Perhaps the fact that GNU Linux and other free software projects cloned the Unix operating system too successfully has resulted in most people forgetting that cloning itself is not much of an innovative exercise. 

While cloning does not diminish the usefulness of GNU Linux and related free software, it also proved that it is possible to cloning commercial systems such as social media systems as free software projects.
